Khailil Tookas
9/25/22
Composing Digital Media
Prof. Flynn
Artist Statement
        This project was an attempt at aurally recreating a past written project from a fiction class I took. In that original written piece a humanoid plant akin to a forest spirit awakens from hundreds of years of sleep and is startled by the industrial presence of humanity. The specific part I aimed to recreate was just after it had awoken and was almost hit by a car just outside of the woods. From the start I knew that I would want to record a lot of my own sounds, primarily to make a unique sound for the spirit. A sound designer I am not, but wanted to make something that sounded alien but vaguely familiar. The sounds I recorded to make the breathing and “talking” sounds were the sounds of running my finger along the grates of a CRT television, pressing a rubber stopper against a wall, and plucking a bass string. Those sounds were then imported and edited in Audacity with things like adding distortion or reverb and then playing some sounds backwards at slower or faster paces. The breathing and “talking” sounds were made in their own audacity files and then exported as mp3’s into the main project so that they’d be more manageable to work with. A very similar process was done to create the footstep sounds, with me recording the sound of my umbrella being grabbed and twigs being broken to be edited into decent walking sounds. My largest hurdle was definitely realizing my vision exactly as I wanted it. I wanted to stay away from using pre-recorded sounds for as much as I could, but I’m still not entirely satisfied with some of the sounds. I think if I wanted to get this project to where I really want it to be I’d need to do a much deeper dive into Foley artists and their techniques and redo a lot of the sounds I made for this project. That might be something I work towards in the revision if I have time for it. Originally, I didn’t actually intend to have any hints of “talking” as the spirit in the original piece has an entirely internal monologue, but I felt for the sake of conveying a bit more of an idea of what was going on it was necessary. I also added in the car honking after some feedback that that section wasn’t entirely clear that it was supposed to be cars before.